
While the relief party was taking this in the professor and the captain
joined them. The attacking party had not yet become aware of their
presence, and seeing that the moment was favorable Ned and Don charged
down the hill, the older men following. A single shot, fired by Ned,
told Sackett and company that help had arrived, and without even
stopping to offer resistance they fled in every direction.

The captain instantly discharged his gun at one of the fleeing men and
he went down in a heap. The professor shot Abel in the shoulder and Ned
and Don pounced on the same man, springing from their horses upon the
man. The fourth man, who was Sackett, ran to the thicket, made a single
bound into his saddle, and thundered away, passing close to Jim in his
corner of the barn, who fired at him but missed in the excitement.

Jim looked for an instant after the fleeing outlaw and then dashed
around the barn and entered it. The horses stood there, moving
restlessly, and he selected a fine looking steed and hastily saddled it.
Leading it from the barn he mounted and started off with all speed after
Sackett.

The slim edge of a moon was rising above the horizon and by its somewhat
sickly light Jim was able to follow the course of the bay pirate. The
man was making straight for the mountain and felt confident that he
would make it, but he was soon undeceived. The horse which Jim had
selected from the stables of the senorita was a high strung, fiery
animal, and he was eager to run. Jim needed no spur to keep him at top
speed, and the lead which the bandit had held was steadily cut dow