There is another mistake into which some writers have fallen, in
supposing that Spain owed her civilization entirely to the Moors. The
Arab conquest undoubtedly entailed on her for many ages a succession
of enlightened as well as warlike rulers, who are justly to be
classed among the greatest patrons of literature and art; but they
fostered rather than founded the sciences that afterwards flourished
under their rule, and which they found preparing to burst forth in
the country they conquered. Though their forefathers might have come
from the seats of learning in the East, such as they then were, the
immediate conquerors of Spain were natives of the neighbouring parts
of Africa, where the sciences had not flourished in any remarkable
degree before the conquest, and where they did not rise subsequently
to any eminence. The learned Lampillas, who has given us a very able
Vindication of Spanish Literature, in answer to the attacks of some
Italian critics, might justly have gone further than he has done as
to its merits under the Moorish domination. Rather than as owing
her advances in learning and civilization to the Moors, it is more
probable that these were the remains of former civilization, existing
among the Roman colonies on the dissolution of the empire. At that
time Spain was essentially inhabited by descendants of Romans, as it
still continues to be, mainly, to the present day. Latin had become
the language of the country, and the best of the later Latin authors,
Seneca, Lucan, Martial, Quinctilian and others, were natives of the
Peninsula. The Romans had planted sixty-seven colonies there, and in
the time of Vespasian could enumerate 360 cities inhabited by them.
These would undoubtedly retain their municipal institutions, and were