
“As I told you, that had happened in the evening, just as dusk was
coming down over the shore and the sea, and the high decked galleon,
with its spread of strained canvas and yellow streamers, its lofty
rigging and its ornamental work, looked like some strange phantom as it
fled down the coast. I don’t know who saw it or how many saw it, but to
this day the story, half legend as it is, has persisted concerning the
phantom galleon. Some fantastic tales still linger about it appearing on
dusky nights and sailing swiftly along the shore, but they are idle
stories to which no one with intelligence pays any attention. Ned never
gave the whole thing much credit until a remarkable circumstance brought
it forcefully to his mind.

“Near his little ranch there is a large old estate which belongs to a
once noble family of mixed Spanish and Mexican blood, and although they
keep pretty much to themselves, out of a lofty sense of pride, they have
been rather friendly to Ned, in their stately and exacting way. There
was an old man who was head of the place, his daughter, and one or two
servants. Lately the old gentleman died, and Ned kindly helped out with
the funeral and the management of the ranch affairs until a permanent
overseer was brought over from Mexico, and in her gratitude the young
senorita allowed him to roam pretty much around the house. I suspect
from his letter that he has of late become rather more than friendly
with the young lady, but that doesn’t make much difference either way.