Gunda a well yielded eleven gallons a day for six months, from a boring
eighty feet deep, and one two-hundred feet deep, at Makum, produced a
hundred gallons an hour. The coast of Arakan and the adjacent islands
have long been famed for mud-volcanoes caused by the eruption of
hydrocarbon gases. Forty-thousand gallons a year of petroleum have been
exported by the natives from Kyoukpyu. The oil is light and pure. In
1877 European enterprise was attracted to this industry and in 1879 work
was undertaken by the Borongo Oil-Co. The company started on a large
scale and in 1883 had twenty-four wells in operation, ranging from
five-hundred to twelve-hundred feet in depth, one yielding for a few
weeks one-thousand gallons daily. The total pumped from ten wells during
the year was a quarter-million gallons; and in 1884 the company had to
suspend payment. Large supplies of high-class petroleum might be
obtained from this region, if suitable methods of working were employed.

[Illustration: WOMEN IN JAPAN CARRYING OIL ON THEIR BACKS.]

Japan also takes a position in the oleiferous procession allied to that
of the yellow dog under the band-wagon. At the base of Fuji-Yama, a
mountain of respectable altitude, the thrifty subjects of the Mikado
manage a cluster of oil-pits in the style practiced by their
forefathers. The mirv holes, the creaking apparatus and the general
surroundings are second editions of the Rangoon exhibits. Yum-Yum’s
countrymen are clever students and they have much to learn concerning
petroleum. Twenty-one years ago a Japanese nobleman inspected the
Pennsylvania oil-fields, sent thither to report to the government all
about the American system of operating the territory. His observations,
embodied in an official statement, failed to amend the moss-grown
processes of the Fuji-Yamans, who preferred to “fight it out on the